To-Do List Manager

A simple, console-based To-Do List Manager written in Java. This application allows users to add, remove, view, and prioritize tasks. It also supports saving tasks to a file, loading tasks from a file, and searching tasks by keywords.

About

The To-Do List Manager is designed to help users stay organized by keeping track of tasks and their priorities. Whether you're managing daily errands, project deadlines, or personal goals, this application provides a straightforward interface to manage your to-do list efficiently. With features like task completion tracking, search functionality, and file persistence, it offers both simplicity and utility in a lightweight package.

Features

Add Tasks: Add tasks with a description and priority level (1-5).

Remove Tasks: Remove tasks by selecting the task number.

View Tasks: View all current tasks, displaying their status and priority.

Mark Tasks as Completed: Mark tasks as completed to track progress.

Save Tasks to File: Save tasks to a file for future use.

Load Tasks from File: Load tasks from a previously saved file.

Search Tasks: Search tasks by keywords in their description.

Getting Started

Prerequisites

Java Development Kit (JDK) 8 or later

A code editor or IDE (e.g., IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, or VS Code)

Installation

Clone the repository:

git clone https://github.com/your-username/ToDoListManager.git

Navigate to the project directory:

cd ToDoListManager

Compile the code:

javac ToDoListApp.java

Run the application:

java ToDoListApp

Usage

Launch the application by running the ToDoListApp class.

Use the menu to perform actions:

Add a task with a description and priority.

Remove tasks by selecting their number from the list.

View all tasks with their status and priority.

Mark tasks as completed.

Save or load tasks to/from a file (tasks.txt).

Search tasks by a keyword.

Exit the application when done.

Example

=== To-Do List Manager ===
1. Add Task
2. Remove Task
3. View Tasks
4. Mark Task as Completed
5. Save Tasks to File
6. Load Tasks from File
7. Search Task
8. Exit
Choose an option: 1
Enter the task description: Finish the project
Enter the task priority (1-5): 2
Task added: Finish the project

File Format

Tasks are saved in a tasks.txt file with the following format:

<description>|<completed>|<priority>

Example:

Finish the project|false|2
Prepare for the meeting|true|1

Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork this repository and submit a pull request with your improvements.